1
Modernism
300 North LaSalle
300 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL

<p>I saw 300 North LaSalle walking eastward down the Chicago River's south bank. Built in 2009 under Oklahoma City architect Pickard Chilton (https://www.archdaily.com/146450/300-north-lasalle-pickard-chilton). If such a magnific structure as 300 North LaSalle should seem blasé or overshadowed in a city filled with structural landmarks, this points to the vehicularisation of Chicago's modernist æsthetic.</p>

2
New Deal
Erie County Courthouse
323 Columbus Avenue, Sandusky, OH

<p>Erie County‘s courthouse in Sandusky was built in 1872 by Cleveland architects Myer and Holmes in a richly ornamented Second Empire style complete with mansard roof. Most of the façade was remodeled beginning in 1936 in Art Deco in a WPA project under local architect Henry Millott. Some of the original façade remains visible around the bottom row of windows. The northeast cornerstone contains two dates, 1872 and 1938, reflecting the naissance and re-naissance of the structure.</p>

3
Consumerism
Tiffany Mosaic
111 North State Street, Chicago, IL

<p>Marshall Field and Company flagship department store on State Street was the epicentre of Chicago's consumer dreamscape. The building's central atrium is crowned by a luxurious Tiffany mosaic in blue, green, and gold iridescent glass. According to Leach, "the dome's shape consisting of three concentric circles contributed to the illusion of open-ended space or of a heavenly domain without limits" (77). The store has been occupied by Macy's since 2006.</p>

4
Working-class housing
1880 stone house
810 Market Street, Sandusky, OH

<p>This two-story stone house was built in 1880 across Market Street from the RB Hubbard & Son Lumber Yard and catty-corner to the Sandusky Electric Light, Gas, Fuel and Supply Company. The lumberyard block was surrounded by storefronts, mainly drug stores, according to the 1886 Sanborn map for Sandusky. Other industries were located in the neighborhood as well, as it lied along the terminus of the Indiana, Bloomington, and Western Railway. Thus the early industrial pattern of living near the workplace is visible.</p>

5
Factory
Medusa Portland Cement Company
Barrett Road, Sandusky, OH

<p>Founded in 1892 by three sons of geologist John Strong Newberry, Medusa Cement did a profitable business supplying cement for the building boom in the first half of twentieth century. The factory anchored the tiny unincorporated community of Bay Bridge, just west of the also tiny village of Bay View.</p>

6
Adaptive Re-use
Chesapeake Lofts
401 West Shoreline Drive, Sandusky, OH

<p>This former factory of the Hinde & Dauch Paper Company was renovated into apartment units in 2007. This factory was the birthplace of the corrugated box, and Hinde & Dauch became the largest producer of the item worldwide. Both men were natives of the Sandusky area who started out as farmers; they entered the paper business together by partnering to sell bails of straw to paper mills. When they entered the mill business themselves, their efforts were unprofitable until they hit on the innovation of corrugation. After moving between a few locations, their main factory at the foot of Jackson Street was completed in 1918.</p>

7
Highway Strip
Whippy Dip
1070 North Buck Road, Marblehead, OH

<p>I think the name "Whippy Dip" is just an inside family joke; the current name is "Dar's Dairy Delight", although I assume the shop has passed thru a few owners since its construction. This ice cream stand is a tiny piece of roadside architecture built across State Route 269 from East Harbor State Park, a popular beach and campground facility. Although the structure dates to 1987,according to the Ottawa County Auditor's website, the Whippy Dip clearly evokes Jackson's 1950s strip æsthetic.</p>

8
Ecologically managed landscape
Bank of America Tower
1 Bryant Park, New York, NY

<p>Ecologically managed? A skyscraper? But how?? In today's Green Age, a structure can't stand out by æsthetics alone (although Bank of America Tower arguably does just that)—now sustainability is the key. Bank of America Tower, completed in 2010, was the first office skyscraper in the US to achieve LEED Platinum certification. Among its sustainable attractions are an onsite cogeneration electricity plant, a thermal ice storage system (producing ice during the night to provide cooling during the day, balancing the electrical load), and rain and snow collection and reuse. As the developer's website states: "Drawing on concepts of biophilia—or human's innate need for connection to the natural environment—the vision at the occupant level was to create the highest quality modern workplace by emphasizing daylight, fresh air, and an intrinsic connection to the outdoors." (https://www.durst.org/properties/one-bryant-park/) So the developer is betting that the sustainable workplace is also the healthy and productive workplace. Maybe Bank of America Tower has made great strides toward a sustainable future, but it indicates as well the failure of Modernist architecture to truly shun its environment as the old practitioners would have it. In fact, Bank of America Tower's form is itself the <em>turning-inside-out</em> of Modernism; a cubist reassembling of the shards of the Bauhaus.</p>

9
Beaux-Arts
Chicago Union Station
225 South Canal Street, Chicago, IL

<p>Union Station replaced an earlier "Union Depôt" on the same site, just across the Chicago River from the Loop. Construction began in 1913 under Daniel Burnham and was completed after his death by Graham, Anderson, Probst, and White, an example of the firm's early Beaux-Arts influence (see #10). The main façade on Canal Street is lined with Corinthian columns, which welcome the passenger into the Great Hall, a spacious waiting area with glass ceilings and sumptuous architectural ornament. Union Station proudly announces Chicago as America's great Rail City, the crossroads between East and West.</p>

10
Wildcard
Merchandise Mart
222 Merchandise Mart Plaza

<p>The world's largest building when constructed in 1930 by Marshall Field and Company, the Merchandise Mart houses showrooms catering to retailers and distributors on the hunt for the latest fashions in décor and furnishings. The Mart is thus a department store for the department stores. The building was designed by Chicago firm Graham, Anderson, Probst, & White, inaugurating their signature Art Deco phase; other examples of the firm's Art Deco output include the Civic Opera Building and the Field Building. In the main lobby, the Merchandise Mart Hall of Fame contains a gigantic bust of the Mart's legendary founder, Marshall Field himself. Presiding broadly over the supertalls of North Loop, Merchandise Mart (rebranded theMART by Vornado) is merely a "workaday" (Jackson's favourite word) institution, the corporate face of consumer enchantment.</p>
